# Question 58

## Inner classes

Inner classes are classes within other classes. There are two types of inner classes: Static inner classes and Instance inner classes.

The following code illustrates inner classes:

```java
class OuterClass {
    // ...
    static class StaticInner {
        // ...
    }
    
    class InstanceInner {
        // ...
    }
}
```

Static inner classes are members of the outer class and can access private fields and methods of the outer class. Instance inner classes are members of an outer object rather than the class itself, and can access outer instance fields and methods. 

## Method-local classes

Method-local classes are classes within a method. The following code illustrates this:

```java
class Outer {
    // ...
    void f() {
        // ...
        class MethodLocal {
            // ...
        }
    }

}
```

Method-local classes are recreated for each instance, and can access instance fields and methods of the class. They can access local fields and methods, which means they cannot be static.

## Anonymous inner classes

Anonymous inner classes are created by extending a class without defining the name of the subclass. The following code illustrates this:

```java
class Outer {
    int x = 1;
    
    Object add() {
        int y = 2;
        Object o = new Object() {
            public String toString() {
                return String.valueOf(x + y);
            }
        };
        return o;  
    }

}
``` 

Here, the `Object` class is being extended and `o` is an instance of a subclass of `Object`, but this subclass does not have a name. 

Anonymous inner functions can access all local and instance variables. 

## Lambdas

There are two types of lambdas: Expression and statement lambdas.

Expression lambdas contain only one expression, whose return value is used as the return value for the lambda. A statement lambda is within a block and may have multiple expressions within it, with a return value if necessary (although not mandatory).

A lambda is simply a shorthand for a method defined in a functional interface. A functional interface is an interface which only has one method so the compiler knows which to use.

## Which to use

Each of these has access to more variables than the last. A good rule of thumb is to use the type of class which has access to the fewest kinds of variables, but which satisfies the purpose it is being used for. However another consideration is convenience, and using a lambda for its convenience and readability may take precedence over using the most restrictive class type.
