# Exercise 49

A naive approach to delete an entry from an open addressing table is to just delete the pointer from the table pointing to the record. However the obvious problem with this is that there may be overspill effects after the entry in question that may have problems when retrieving data. For example, say we are using a linear probing function, i.e. one that just looks for the next empty slot and puts the element there in cases of collision. Let h(k1) = h(k4) = 0, h(k2) = h(k3) = 1, and h(k4) = 5. 

We start by inserting k1, and it goes into slot 0. Then we insert k2. Slot 1 is open so it goes into slot 1. We then insert k3, and slot 1 is taken but slot 2 is empty so we put it in slot 2. We then insert k4, and slot 0 is taken, as are slots 1 and 2 so we insert it into slot 3. Therefore we end up with the following hash table:

| index | key pointed to |
|:-----:|:--------------:|
|   0   |       k1       |
|   1   |       k2       |
|   2   |       k3       |
|   3   |       k4       |
|   4   |      EMPTY     |
|   5   |      EMPTY     |

Let's now delete k3. h(k3) = 1 so we check slot 1, and see that it's occupied by k2, so we go to the next slot, slot 2, and see k3 is there so we delete k3 from slot 2, leaving the following hash table as a result:

| index | key pointed to |
|:-----:|:--------------:|
|   0   |       k1       |
|   1   |       k2       |
|   2   |      EMPTY     |
|   3   |       k4       |
|   4   |      EMPTY     |
|   5   |      EMPTY     |

If we try to retrieve k4, we check in slot 5 and see that it is empty, so we correctly conclude that the key wasn't inserted.

If we try to retrieve k4, we check in slot h(k4) = 0 and see that it is occupied by k1, then check slot 1 and see that it's occupied by k2, and then check slot 2 and see it's empty and incorrectly conclude k4 was not inserted into the table.

A solution to this problem is when deleting a key, instead of marking the slot as empty, to mark it as deleted. Deleted is a separate state to empty, with the property that when we are retrieving a key and see a slot marked deleted, we see that there was once a key there so instead of concluding that the key being retrieved wasn't inserted, we move to the next slot according to the probing function as the key being retrieved may have been inserted before this deletion. However while inserting new keys we can insert into a slot marked deleted. Therefore a deleted slot is treated as a filled slot when retrieiving a key and an empty slot when inserting a key.