# Exercise 21

## insertsort
Insertsort goes through elements and moves them to the left if required. Since it goes through them in order and when it hits another element with the same key it stops, it is stable.

## selectsort
Selectsort passes through the array looking for an element to go in the 0th position, then the 1st, and so on, and will swap the first eligible element it comes across, so it preserves the order identical keys come in, so it is stable.

## binary insertsort
Binary insertsort jumps around and puts elements on one side of a middle element so it isn't stable as the elements jump around.

## bubblesort
Bubble sort is stable as it swaps elements if they need to be swapped and doesn't if they are equal, as would be the case for two identical keys, and these end up next to each other in the same order as they came in.

## mergesort
Mergesort goes through elements in the order than they came, merging subarrays, so it is stable.

## heapsort
Heapsort is not stable as if two children in the heap are equal then a random one is selected to be promoted to the parent.

## quicksort
Elements jump around depending on the pivot so quicksort is not stable.

## counting sort
Counting sort is stable when used with an iNext pointer for each symbol.

## bucket sort
Bucket sort can be stable. Two identical keys end up in the same bucket, and a different sorting algorithm needs to be used to sort within buckets, and if that algorithm is stable then so is bucketsort.

## radix sort
Radix sort relies on stable sorting to work so it is stable.