# Exercise 53

## Properties of binomial heaps

The following are proofs by induction:

1. A tree of order 0 contains 1 node, i.e. 2^0. A tree of order n + 1 is made up of combining 2 trees of order n, i.e. two trees with 2^n elements each, giving the final tree 2^(n+1) elements. 

2. A tree of order 0 has 0 subtrees. A tree of order n + 1 is made by combining two trees of order n, i.e. with n subtrees each. This is done by making one subtree the child of another, so the first subtree has n subtrees, and the second is added to it, giving it an additional subtree for a total of n + 1 subtrees.

3. A tree of order 0 has a height of 0. A tree of order n + 1 is made by combining two trees of order n, so it has n children of varying orders from 0 to n - 1, and a single child of order n (the second subtree). Therefore the subtrees range in order from 0 to n, and the greatest order is of n. If this tree has a height of n, the overall tree has a height of n + 1.

## Properties of heaps

Say a binomial heap has n nodes. We want a combination of binomial trees whose numbers of nodes add up to n. From property 1 above, a binomial tree of order k has 2^k elements. We therefore want a certain sum of powers of 2 that add up to n. This is easily found by converting n into a binary number and looking for the 1s. For example, say we want to build a binomial heap with 12 nodes. 12 in binary is 10100. Therefore 12 = 2^2 + 2^4, so we need a binomial tree of order 2 and one of order 4. 

The number of binomial trees required is therefore in the order of the number of digits in the binary representation of n, i.e. O(lgn).

The largest of these trees has 1 more node than the entire binary string to its right combined, i.e. O(lgn) again. 