# Question 2

## Part (a)

```python
def inc(counter):
    for bit in counter:  # going from least to most significant bit
        if bit == 0:
            bit = 1
            break
        else:
            bit = 0
```

## Part (b)

The worst case of `inc()` is O(k) as if there are k bits, then the worst case occurs when all k bits are set to 1, so `inc()` goes through each bit from least to most significant, flipping it, i.e. goes through k bits.

## Part (c)

When the counter goes from 0 to 1, bit 0 is flipped.
1 -> 2: bits 0 and 1 are flipped
2 -> 3: bit 0 is flipped
3 -> 4: bits 0, 1, and 2 are flipped
4 -> 5: bit 0 is flipped
and so on.

0000
0001 1
0010 2
0011 1
0100 3
0101 1

When the counter increments to a power n of 2, 1 + log_2(n) bits are flipped, as the least significant log_2(n) bits are all flipped from 1 to 1, and the next one is flipped from 0 to 1. Between powers of two, the cost of incrementing is equivalent to the cost of incrementing the rest of the number without the most significant bit, as this does not change until the next power of 2.

To get from 2^n to 2^(n+1), the counter ignores the MSB until the very end, so it essentially counts from 0 to 2^n again. Let c(x) be the number of bit flips to get from 0 to x, and let c'(x -> y) be the number of bit flips to get from x to y, i.e. c(x) = c'(0 -> x).

Therefore, c'(2^n -> 2^(n+1)) = 1 + c'(0 -> 2^n), so c(2^(n + 1)) = c'(0 -> 2^(n+1)) = c'(0 -> 2^n) + c'(2^n -> 2^(n+1)) = 1 + 2c'(0 -> 2^n) = 1 + 2c(2^n).

We now have a recurrence relation to get to powers of 2. Let c''(x) = c(2^x)

c''(0) = c(1) = c'(0 -> 1) = 1
c''(n + 1) = c(2^(n + 1)) = 1 + 2c(2^n) = 1 + 2c''(n)

c''(n) = 1 + 2c''(n - 1) = 1 + 2(1 + 2c''(n - 2)) = 1 + 2 + 4c''(n - 2) = 1 + 2 + 4(1 + 2c''(n - 3)) = ... = sum(from i = 0 to k - 1) (2^i) + 2^(k) c''(n - k) = 2^k - 1 + 2^k c''(n - k) = 2^n - 1 + 2^n c''(n - n) = 2^n - 1 + 2^n = 2^(n + 1) - 1

Therefore, c(2^n) = 2^(n + 1) - 1.

Therefore, to count the number of bit flips it takes to get from 0 to m, we need to find the sum of 2^(i + 1) - 1 for each index i of the binary representation of m where the bit at i is 1. 2^(i + 1) for each index i where the bit at i is 1 is equivalent to shifting the binary representation to the left by 1 bit and converting this back into decimal. Bitshifting to the left multiplies a number by 2, so this part is equal to 2m. The subtracting by 1 part involves subtracting 1 for every 1 bit in the binary representation of 1.

Therefore the aggregate cost of incrementing from 0 to m is 2m - k where k is the number of 1s in the binary representation of m, which is definitely bounded by m, so the aggregate cost is O(m).