# Exercise 25

Consider the following matrices:

A: 2 x 4 matrix
B: 4 x 3 matrix
C: 3 x 10 matrix

We want to find ABC. Since matrix multiplication is associative, we can do this by either doing (AB)C or by doing A(BC), and we'd get the same final result.

When we multiply A and B, we end up with a 2 x 3 matrix. For each element in the matrix, we have to multiply a row vector in A by a column vector in B, so we do a total of 4 multiplications for each element. There are 2 x 3 = 6 elements. We therefore do 6 x 4 = 24 multiplications to find AB.

This applies to any matrices X and Y with dimensions a x b and b x c respectively. The final matrix has dimensions of a x c, and each row vector in X and each column vector in Y has b elements so we do b multiplications for each element in matrix XY, so we do a total of a x b x c multiplications to find XY.

Therefore we found AB using 24 multiplications. AB is a 2 x 3 matrix, and C is a 3 x 10 matrix, so (AB)C can be found from AB and C using 2 x 3 x 10 = 60 multiplications. Therefore the total number of multiplications needed to find (AB)C is 24 + 60 = 84 multiplications.

Now let's look at A(BC). B is a 4 x 3 matrix and C is a 3 x 10 matrix. BC can therefore be found using 4 x 3 x 10 = 120 multiplications, and is a 4 x 10 matrix. A is a 2 x 4 matrix. A(BC) can be found from BC and A using 2 x 4 x 10 = 80 multiplications. Therefore the total number of multiplications required to find A(BC) is 120 + 80 = 200 multiplications.

(AB)C = A(BC) so they give us the same result, but (AB)C requires 84 multiplications to find, while A(BC) requires 200 multiplications, over twice as many.

Therefore even though multiplying matrices in different orders produces the same result, some orders can be drastically more efficient to compute than others.